+++
title = 'How to use Git'
summary = ''
date = 2024-03-18T11:40:44Z
draft = true
tags = []
+++
```
teach me how to use git with examples of commands
I should learn how to use git add -u, git commit and git push
```

1. First, you need to understand what the Git command is. It's a tool used for versioning data in computer systems. Git allows us to commit changes to our project files and also to track when changes were made.

2. Now, let's start with the first step of learning how to use Git: `git init`

   This command initializes a new empty repository in your home directory. It tells Git to treat this directory as a new repository, meaning it won't have any files yet.

3. Next, you should learn about the command `git add .`. This command adds all the files in the current working directory with no excluding. In other words, if there is any file with `.` after its name, then it will be added to the commit.

4. After adding the desired files, you can now commit these changes. To do this, you need to use `git commit -m "add my new changes"` and type your message in the comment field. This command will commit everything you've changed since the last commit.

5. After your commit, you can now push your changes to a remote server or gitlab using `git push origin master`.

6. To see what's been added, you can use `git status` in the command line. It will list out all the changes that have been made since the last commit. 

Remember these commands and instructions are just a starting point to help you learn Git better. If you have any further queries, feel free to ask them here.

```
what about git add -u?
```

Halucinated and talked nonsense ("the '-u' flag stands for 'useful'") so just use `git --help add` to know what it does.
